When the shell is started, it reads its configuration files. The most important are:
 /etc/profile
 ~/.bash_profile
 ~/.bashrc


When running a normal program, that exists in compiled form on your system. a new process is created because Bash makes a copy of itself. which inherits the enviroment, but the PID is different. this is called forking.

After this, the virtual memory space given to the child is overwritten with new data through an exec call by the system

This fork-and-exec switches old commands with new, maintaining the enviroment. the mechanism is used for all Linux processes, even the first process init, is forked during boot in the bootstrapping procedure.

Built-in commands are contained within the shell. When the name of a built-in command is used as the first word of a command, the shell executes it without creating a new process.

 
. Shell syntax:
	if input is not a comment, the shell reads it and divides it into words and operators, which are then translated into tokens; all separated by metacharacters.
	Then the shell parses these tokes intos simple and compund commands.
	After breaking tokens into lists of filenames and commands and arguments, it executes said commands.
	optionally it waits for the command to complete and gets its exit status.

. Shell functions:
	Shell functions are used to group commands, giving the a simple group name for later excecution.
	When the name of a shell funtion is used as a simple command, the list of command is excecuted.
	they are excecuted in the current shell context

. Shell parameters
	 parameters are entitys that store values, like a variable stores a name. these variabeles have a stored value and 0 or more attributes, and they are creatd using the declare shell command and they can be removed using the unset built-in
	
. Executing commands
	When executing a command:
	- Words that the parser has marked as variable assignment or redirections are seved for later. The rest are expanded.
	- The first word after the expansion is taken to be the command name, the rest are considered arguments.
	- The redirections are performed.


. Order and logic:
	Para acelerar el proceso de desarrollo, se recomienda hacer una lista de tareas que debe realizar el script, pudiendo hacer referencia a cada tarea con un numero.
	Utilizar el lenguaje hablado para definir la logica del programa antes de desarrollarlo


